#### Meeting from: November 25th, 2020

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Christian Siebmanns (@christian24)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#287 [RRFC] Add nohoist option for workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/287) - @socialwyze-franklin
1. **PR**: [#279 RFC for --default-command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/279) - @isaacs
1. **Issue**: [#275 [RRFC] &#x60;registry:&lt;url&gt;:&lt;name&gt;[@&lt;version-range&gt;]&#x60; dependency specifier](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/275) - @isaacs
1. **PR**: [#273 RFC: npm workspaces - Config management](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/273) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#272 RFC: add preferDev field to package.json](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/272) - @Ginden
1. **PR**: [#217 RFC: add registry per package per organisation](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/217) - @baloran

### Notes

#### **Issue**: [#287 [RRFC] Add nohoist option for workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/287) - @socialwyze-franklin
- Action: queue up a proper RFC and deep dive for "hoisting"/reifying "strategies"

#### **PR**: [#279 RFC for --default-command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/279) - @isaacs
- Reminder from last conversation:
  - It may be disruptive
  - Sharing commands might become more challenging
  - Make the current default help-behavior a little bit more helpful, adding a note in case there's a script with that name
- Default `npm` behavior takes from the old-days of clis having the default behavior be just print help output, similar to (`curl`, `tar`, etc)
- @christian24: The diff binary (e.g: `npr`) would make it so that we avoid the namespace-conflict situation
- @darcyclarke: Limitting the future new subcommands we could possibly add is one of the major inconvenients
- @isaacs: `npm start`, `npm stop`, `npm restart` were added very early on in the cli and might have been better to never have had it in the first place
- @ruyadorno: Not necessarily onboard with the idea of adding new binaries such as `npr`, still think it's better for aliases to live in userland packages, bash profiles, etc.
- @darcyclarke: builtin binaires provide a good value for the new/intermediate developers since it provides a sane default behavior with no need to tweak configs

#### **Issue**: [#275 [RRFC] &#x60;registry:&lt;url&gt;:&lt;name&gt;[@&lt;version-range&gt;]&#x60; dependency specifier](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/275) - @isaacs
- @isaacs: Seems to be quite actionable and uncontrovertial, need to write down the spec now

#### **PR**: [#273 RFC: npm workspaces - Config management](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/273) - @ruyadorno
- @ruyadorno: From last call, listing workspaces is non-controvertial and very actionable but adding/removing workspaces is still up in the air since there were concerns brought up during the last time we discussed it
- @ruyadorno: We need to collect more feedback and evolve this RFC

#### **PR**: [#272 RFC: add preferDev field to package.json](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/272) - @Ginden

#### **PR**: [#217 RFC: add registry per package per organisation](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/217) - @baloran
- @darcyclarke: This is the preceding PR to [#275](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/275) dependency specifier. We should circle back to this once work there is done.
