#### Meeting from: April 14th, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
- Daniel Park (@gimli01)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Rebecca Turner (@iarna)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Consider accepting...**
    1. [x] **PR**: [#129 RFC: overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/129) - @isaacs
    1. [x] **PR**: [#314 RFC: &#x60;registry:&#x60; dependency specifiers](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/314) - @isaacs 
    3. [ ] **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Working with workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117) - @ruyadorno 
1. **PR**: [#356 rfc: npm audit fix provides overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/356) - @iarna
1. **Issue**: [#347 [RRFC] Add &#x60;type&#x60; to &#x60;npm init&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/347) - @MylesBorins
1. **PR**: [#343 RFC: npm workspaces: auto switch context based on cwd](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/343) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#339 rfc for improving command suggestions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/339) - @nlf
1. **PR**: [#336 RFC for &#x60;where&#x60; config parameter](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/336) - @nlf
1. **PR**: [#314 RFC: &#x60;registry:&#x60; dependency specifiers](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/314) - @isaacs
1. **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
1. **Issue**: [#156 [RRFC] Optional install](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/156) - @gotbahn
1. **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Working with workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117) - @ruyadorno

### Notes

#### **Consider accepting...**
1. [x] **PR**: [#129 RFC: overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/129) - @isaacs
1. [x] **PR**: [#314 RFC: &#x60;registry:&#x60; dependency specifiers](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/314) - @isaacs 
    - [ ] **Action:** @isaacs to add a line/note on the fact that the `registry:` protocol will cascade that config to downstream fetching of deps 
3. [ ] **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Working with workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117) - @ruyadorno 
    - [ ] **Action:** @ruyadorno + @darcyclarke to comb through current state of terminology
    - Leave open until next weeks call

#### **Issue**: [#156 [RRFC] Optional install](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/156) - @gotbahn

- [ ] Discuss next week

#### **PR**: [#356 rfc: npm audit fix provides overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/356) - @iarna
- @wesleytodd There are a few open questions in the original overrides RFC
- @isaacs There a few comments but overrall it seems ready to be ratified
- @isaacs asking about the end-user experience; ie. what happens with `npm audit fix`? Does
- @ljharb we should document that `npm` will look for an updated version of the dependency before applying patches versions to overrides
- [ ] **Action**: @isaacs to review RFC once more before committing to bulk advisory API addition/change (tentatively: this looks fine, probably no changes)
- @wesleytodd wondering how these overrides/patches eventually go away &/or if the API/registry can make these go away
- **Note:** the expectation is that this = is not a public registry feature/offering
- @iarna what happens in the fresh install 

#### **Issue**: [#347 [RRFC] Add &#x60;type&#x60; to &#x60;npm init&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/347) - @MylesBorins
- [ ] **Action:** @darcyclarke removing agenda label & going to provide feedback/notes from last meeting back to issue to capture circle back
- **Note**: we are not expecting to add to the basic `npm init` template at this time

#### **PR**: [#343 RFC: npm workspaces: auto switch context based on cwd](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/343) - @ruyadorno 

#### **PR**: [#339 rfc for improving command suggestions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/339) - @nlf
- [ ] **Action:** @darcyclarke Accept/ratify & move to "implemented"

#### **PR**: [#336 RFC for &#x60;where&#x60; config parameter](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/336) - @nlf
- Leaving open for next week

#### **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
- @bnb made a POC already, would need to update though to be closer to this spec
- @bnb is waiting on direction/support
- @isaacs we've wanted to pull in licensee for awhike, might be time to look at `npm audit`
- @ljharb if weuse licensee or not, we should have all of its features


#### **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Working with workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117) - @ruyadorno
- [ ] @ruyadorno review to make sure this describes what the implementation landed on/is landing on
