#### Meeting from: February 3rd, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- 

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Feedback from npm v7 going to `latest`**
1. **Issue**: [#301 [RRFC] Workspaces: support to version specifiers other than semver ranges](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/301) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Working with workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117) - @ruyadorno

### Notes

* 1. **Feedback from npm v7 going to `latest`**
  * @ljharb has experienced some issues
    * currently investigating an issue between v6 & v7
    * build/tests are failinig (https://github.com/ljharb/eslint-plugin-import/runs/1817778513?check_suite_focus=true)
    * `eslint-plugin-import`: https://github.com/benmosher/eslint-plugin-import/issues/1986
    * anecdotally, believe it's the installation in the root of the package
  * @wesleytodd could be a bug in the webpack resolver
 
* 2. **Announcements**
  * @ruyadorno `npm diff` launched (ref. https://dev.to/ruyadorno/npm-diff-23dh)
  * @wesleytodd Adam Baldwin has been posting about security vulnerabilities in the ecosystem (ref. https://evilpacket.net/2021/attacking-oss-using-abandoned-resources/)
  * @wesleytodd bug/issue ran prepare scripts with legacy/old `git` dep (deep transitive - `wdio`) - seems to be in `arborist.buildIdealTree` seems to run prepare script which could run in the cache
 
* 3. **Workspaces**
  * Notes from last RFC call: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/latest/meetings/2021-01-27.md#notes
  * @wesleytodd working with the Google folks that wrote `release-please` might be good
    * specifically, they are trying to run commands inside workspace projects programmatically (ie. utilizing `arborist` to get a list of workspaces/`package.json`s)
    * learn why/what they've been using `lerna` for
    * @wesleytodd have a bit of a unique workflow compared to `release-please` offers (would prefer `npm update` to be able to handle this better)
  * @darcyclarke pivot points seem to be around hoist
  * @ljharb `npm` needs to ship a non-breaking workspace implementation
  * @ruyadorno has heard some complaints about the basics w/ current workspaces, has some ideas...
  * @ruyadorno we should wait until v8 to change the workspace implementation
  * @darcyclarke keep thinking about the opt-in "strategy" for `strategies` (ie. host/shared/global-style/legacy-bundling)
  * @wesleytodd would love opt-in changes shipped 
  * @ljharb minor makes sense since it should only be better/more-strict (nomenclature `mode`s ?)
  * @ruyadorno does a different `mode`  how  workspaces get installed?
  * @ruyadorno we may still want to consider including the `nohost` config that Yarn v1 had
  * @ruyadorno is it a good idea to start work on the running commands in workspaces before we surface this?











