#### Meeting from: June 9th, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Rick Markins (@rxmarbles)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
- Daniel Park (@gimli01)
- Zb Tenerowicz (@naugtur)
- Giles Roadnight (@Roaders)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#395 [RRFC] Promote &#x60;npm add&#x60; to a top-level command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/395) - @ruyadorno
1. **Issue**: [#371 [RRFC] `npm-audit-resolver` next-steps](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/372) - @naugtur
1. **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) - @isaacs
1. **PR**: [#364 Restore npm 6 ability to install one package](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/364) - @dandv
1. **PR**: [#343 RFC: npm workspaces: auto switch context based on cwd](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/343) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#336 RFC for &#x60;where&#x60; config parameter](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/336) - @nlf
1. **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
1. **PR**: [#392 RFC: group outdated packages by dependency type ](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/392) - @thiagodp 
1. **PR**: [#386 RFC: Add check-installed-peers](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/386) - @roaders

### Notes

#### **Issue**: [#395 [RRFC] Promote &#x60;npm add&#x60; to a top-level command](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/395) - @ruyadorno
- @ruyadorno 
    - this is an iteration of #325
    - trying to delineate between the `install`ation of depdencies vs. addition of those deps into `package.json`
    - want to be able to add without installing
    - making `npm add` an official command it becomes more discoverable/easier to understand
- @darcyclarke is this not a breaking change? ie. we'd have to wait until `v8` to change this, since `npm add` today alias' to `npm install`
- @wraithgar not necessarily a breaking change, `npm add` can be made compatible with `npm install <pkg>`
- @isaacs `npm add <pkg>` should maybe only reify that specific node being added but that's a breaking change
- zb: we can't make `npm install foo` ever stop working, too much ecosystem usage.  Would not advise to take `reify` as an official command, weird word.
- @wraithgar is there any reasons not to move on (incrementaly) with this idea?
- @isaacs
  - should `add` lifecycle hooks be run only when adding a net new dep? on updates too? questions to be answered during the proper RFC.
  - still think we should have a broader mutate install tree event
- @wraithgar this idea here is trying to solve the problem of the users wanting an event for when adding a new dep to their tree
- @darcyclarke at this point we should move on with a proper RFC to continue the discussion on this topic

#### **Issue**: [#371 [RRFC] `npm-audit-resolver` next-steps](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/372) - @naugtur
- @darcyclarke some of the discussion around this topic has been continuing in some of the OpenJS foundation collaboration spaces
- @naugtur
  - interactive tool to help manage ignore / acknowledge audit items
  - collaborative space aims to also provide maintainers with tools to help manage these
  - current npm-audit-resolver userland module currently works with npm6 but npm7 support is still in the works
  - lack of info on `npm audit` output has been an issue to support npm7, path is important in order to avoid ignoring a cve for a specific usage and have it being silently introduced via a transitive dep later on
- @isaacs the information should be there internally to arborist at the moment of audit report already so it's a matter of exposing that info
- @naugtur
  - willing to send a PR to arborist
  - info on the dependency type is also useful for the purposes of npm-audit-resolver
- @isaacs a single dependency might have different types depending on how often it
- @ruyadorno maybe use `npm explain` to retrieve type and dependency graph information
- @naugtur also needs help supporting `npm audit fix`
- @isaacs maybe use upcoming **overrides** in order to skip/patch a vulnerable version of a package
- @naugtur
- @isaacs possibly add a way to filter what packages to fix when using `npm audit fix`
- @naugtur would be nice to also have a list of fixed packages at the end of a `npm audit fix`
- @isaacs makes me think also of dry-runs in which the output has the same content as the actual reification, maybe what we need is a proper tree diff output that can be used across these
- @darcyclarke, **action items:**
  - [ ] @naugtur to make a PR (or issue) against [`arborist`'s audit report](https://github.com/npm/arborist/blob/main/lib/audit-report.js) to indicate direct dependencies in output
  - [ ] @naugtur to investigate `npm explain --json` as means to figure out if a vulnerable path is a dev/optional/bundled dependency
  - [ ] @naugtur to create an issue against the CLI to to show the diff information that Arborist provides (@isaacs: should probably _always_ show if `--dry-run`)
   
#### **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) - @isaacs
  - @isaacs this is some ongoing work on cleaning up workspaces install:
    - what is shared by default or not
    - implementation on how to isolate these deps
  - @darcyclarke removing agenda label

#### **PR**: [#364 Restore npm 6 ability to install one package](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/364) - @dandv
  - @isaacs if we were to add it, def need to be opt-in, can't be the default - the syntax might be the `npm add <pkg>` or a config option, it doesn't matter much
  - @darcyclarke should we link the `npm add` cmd proposal with this one?
  - @isaacs it depends, we need to ask some questions first in the `npm add` RFC in order to determine if they actually overlap and the proposal from this RFC can be provided by the `npm add` command
  - @darcyclarke ok, let's leave it open
    
#### **PR**: [#343 RFC: npm workspaces: auto switch context based on cwd](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/343) - @ruyadorno
  - @ruyadorno still saw some users reporting issues about being able to run commands from a workspaces folder, e.g: `cd ./packages/foo && npm ls` -> gets all deps listed as missing
  - @isaacs there are some hazards in making this the default behavior, we need a way to opt-in to a workspaces-root config
    
#### **PR**: [#336 RFC for &#x60;where&#x60; config parameter](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/336) - @nlf
  - @darcyclarke Will do bikeshedding for name before landing but want to move this forward this month
    
#### **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
  - @bnb worked on a PR to licensee, will probably book some time with the team soon to pair and get the work going

#### **PR**: [#392 RFC: group outdated packages by dependency type ](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/392) - @thiagodp 
  - ...
    
#### **PR**: [#386 RFC: Add check-installed-peers](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/386) - @roaders
  - @roaders currently optional peer deps will not warn if a peer deps got a wrong version
  - @isaacs the contract is that if there's an optional peer dep npm is not going to install it by default it will validate versions accordingly
