#### Meeting from: May 5th, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Nathan LaFreniere (@nlf)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb)
- Daniel Park (@gimli01)
- Rick Markins (@rxmables)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
- LJHarb (@ljharb)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **PR**: [#364 Restore npm 6 ability to install one package](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/364) - @dandv
1. **Issue**: [#363 [RRFC] &#x60;.npmignore&#x60; pragma to include &#x60;.gitignore&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/363) - @ljharb
1. **PR**: [#343 RFC: npm workspaces: auto switch context based on cwd](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/343) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#336 RFC for &#x60;where&#x60; config parameter](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/336) - @nlf
1. **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
1. **Issue**: [#156 [RRFC] Optional install](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/156) - @gotbahn
1. **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) (draft) - @isaacs
1. **Issue**: [#372 Topic: discuss &#x60;npm-audit-resolver&#x60; needs](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/372) - @darcyclarke

### Notes

#### Announcements:
- OpenJS World is coming up! (June)
- Package Vulnerability Collab Space Kick-off Pre-Recorded Meeting: https://github.com/openjs-foundation/pkg-vuln-collab-space/issues/2

#### **PR**: [#364 Restore npm 6 ability to install one package](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/364) - @dandv
- @ljharb 
    - was investigating this separately
    - concerned about this behaivour
- @isaacs
    - always need to rebuild the ideal tree
    - we should be able to limit the changes to a specific Node soon (changes in `arborist` should fix this)
    - with a lockfile v6 & v7 work the same today... this would be a change
- @darcyclarke is this a major/minor/patch?
- @ljharb 
    - sounds like we could make this a patch if we try to make this consistent when you don't have a lockfile 
    - sounds like we should have a config to stabilize this & can flip the default in the next major
- [ ] **Action:** @wesleytodd &/or @ljharb to give feedback & potentially add a new RFC for adding a config to allow filtered reification

#### **Issue**: [#363 [RRFC] &#x60;.npmignore&#x60; pragma to include &#x60;.gitignore&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/363) - @ljharb
- @ljharb 
    - finds `files` array dangerous
    - utilizes `.npmignore` has to duplicate/sync w/ `.gitignore`
    - `.npmignore` to essentially extend `.gitignore`
    - doesn't want/feel like adding a new field to `package.json`
- @darcyclarke publish prompts/checks?
- @isaacs `prepublish` script that modifies `files` array in `package.json`?
- @wraithgar 
    - is backwards compatibility important? 
    - we could add a flag
- @ljharb
    - I want backwards incompatibility for this net-new feature
    - it hould fail loudly
- @isaacs 
    - agrees with additive approach

#### **PR**: [#343 RFC: npm workspaces: auto switch context based on cwd](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/343) - @ruyadorno
- @isaacs 
    - seems hazardous to imply the relationship by walking up
    - in favour of the explicit file noting 
- @wesleytodd 
    - believe having a DX requirement here would be 

#### **PR**: [#336 RFC for &#x60;where&#x60; config parameter](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/336) - @nlf
- @nlf 
    - `npm config set|get` only changes user-level config OR globally if you pass `--global`
    - no way to set project-level config
    - `npm exec` has a similar problem where the order of where it looks/fallsback isn't explicit; If it supported this, you could configure this
- @darcyclarke
    - only thing that seems like we'd want changed is the name of the config
- @isaacs
    - make the config EXPLICIT to the usage 
- [ ] **Action:** @nlf/@darcyclarke create a poll with options for the name/update RFC

#### **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
- @tierney
    - rewrote RFC to be focused on utilizing licensee

#### **Issue**: [#156 [RRFC] Optional install](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/156) - @gotbahn
- note: will leave on the agenda for next week

#### **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) (draft) - @isaacs
- note: will leave on the agenda for next week
